Sections: 313-002/004 and 413-003/004 Fall 2020
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- *General format:* This is an *online* *"flipped"* class.

  - About 90 minutes of weekly class time will consist of prerecorded videos; I will provide more details on these shortly.
  - The remaining 60 minutes will consist of two synchronous, interactive Zoom sessions, of which you are expected to attend at least one; I will provide links to these shortly in MS Teams (see below).

- *Class time (fall 2020):* You are expected to attend at least one of these synchronous, interactive sessions.

  - main synchronous session: Thu 19:00-20:00 on Zoom
  - alternate synchronous session: Thu 13:00-14:00 on Zoom

- *Communication:* All communication regarding this class takes place in Zoom (verbal) and MS Teams (written). Most will be in the team-level channel specific to this term. For individual or group-level concerns, you may use direct individual or group messages in MS Teams; my user ID is **klaufer@luc.edu**. *(Please DO NOT use email!)*
- *Instructor:* `Konstantin Läufer <http://laufer.cs.luc.edu>`_
- *Office hour:* Wed 13:45-14:45 and Fri 10:30-11:45 on Zoom (appointment recommended), other times available on request (all times CST)
- *TA:* Sean Higgins
- *Office hour:* Tue 14:00-15:00 and Thu 09:00-09:45 on Zoom (all times CST)
- *Texts:*

  | **Head First Design Patterns (required)**
  | *by Kathy Sierra, Bert Bates, Elisabeth Robson, Eric Freeman*
  | Publisher: O'Reilly Media, Inc.
  | Release Date: October 2004
  | ISBN: 9780596007126
  | `access free on Safari <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/head-first-design/0596007124>`_

  | **Effective Java, 3rd Edition (recommended)**
  | *by Joshua Bloch*
  | Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
  | Release Date: December 2017
  | `access free on Safari <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/effective-java-3rd/9780134686097>`_

  | **Managing Concurrency in Mobile User Interfaces with Examples in Android (required)**
  | *by Konstantin Läufer, George K Thiruvathukal*
  | Publisher: Springer
  | Release Date: 2018
  | ISBN: 978-3-319-93109-8
  | `access free preprint on arXiv <https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.02899>`_


- *Additional resources:* :ref:`appendix-resources`
- Grading (tentative):

  - 45% quizzes & tests
  - 40% projects & presentations *(Percentage effort on each group project will be measured by an end-of-term questionnaire. Group project grades and/or final course grades may be adjusted to account for significant discrepancies in effort among group members.)*
  - 10% in-class activities
  - 5% participation (in-class and online, including announcements of and reports from relevant professional events, GitHub issues and PRs for course examples, etc.)

- `Ground rules <http://laufer.cs.luc.edu/teaching/ground-rules>`_
- `Sakai site for this section (gradebook) <https://sakai.luc.edu/portal/site/COMP_313_002_4743_1206>`_
- `MS Team <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3ad7448a13bdb140679d703a744f49da90%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=fa4f7862-db3c-4e7e-b063-90522d6d2261&tenantId=021f4fe3-2b9c-4824-8378-bbcf9ec5accb>`_ *(mandatory subscription and participation)*

- Important dates (tentative) for take-home quizzes and tests:

  - Week 4 - Wed 16 September: quiz 1
  - Week 7 - Wed 7 October: test 1
  - Week 10 - Wed 28 October: quiz 2
  - Week 13 - Wed 19 November: test 2
  - Week 16 (finals week) - Wed 9 December: test 3

- *Recording of Zoom class meetings:* In this class software will be used to record live class discussions. As a student in this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to review content that was presented. All recordings will become unavailable to students in the class when the course has concluded. The use of all video recordings will be in keeping with the University Privacy Statement shown below.

- *Privacy Statement:* Assuring privacy among faculty and students engaged in online and face-to-face instructional activities helps promote open and robust conversations and mitigates concerns that comments made within the context of the class will be shared beyond the classroom. As such, recordings of instructional activities occurring in online or face-to-face classes may be used solely for internal class purposes by the faculty member and students registered for the course, and only during the period in which the course is offered. Students will be informed of such recordings by a statement in the syllabus for the course in which they will be recorded. Instructors who wish to make subsequent use of recordings that include student activity may do so only with informed written consent of the students involved or if all student activity is removed from the recording. Recordings including student activity that have been initiated by the instructor may be retained by the instructor only for individual use.

- *Bloom’s Taxonomy:* To be used in study guides for quizzes and tests. The letters refer to the levels of learning from the cognitive domain of Bloom's taxonomy:

  - K: know the term
  - C: comprehend the concept
  - A: apply the technique
