Sections: 002 Fall 2021
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- *General format:*

  - This is a *on-campus*, face-to-face class involving lectures, group activities, etc.
  - I will make an effort to record all lectures for later viewing through Sakai/Panopto. In addition, some prerecorded videos are available through Panopto.
  - To earn points for group activities or other in-class activities, you are required to participate in class or make up for the work outside of class.
  - *Estimated workload: 7 to 9 hours per week including class time.*

- *Class time and location (fall 2021):* Thu 17:30-20:00 in Crown Center 105, LSC

- *Communication:* All communication regarding this class takes place in the classroom (verbal) and MS Teams (written). Most will be in the team-level channel specific to this term. For individual or group-level concerns, you may use direct individual or group messages in MS Teams; my user ID is **klaufer@luc.edu**. *(To help me prioritize your class-related communication, please DO NOT use email!)*

- *Instructor:* `Konstantin Läufer <http://laufer.cs.luc.edu>`_ | `GitHub <https://github.com/klaeufer>`_ | `Google Scholar <http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=Rs0f_nMAAAAJ>`_ | `Rate My Prof <https://www.ratemyprofessors.com/ShowRatings.jsp?tid=287274>`_

- *TA:* Marius Ebert

- *Office hours:*

  - Tue 20:00-20:30 in Cuneo Hall 217
  - Thu 20:00-20:30 in Crown Center 105
  - `by appointment via Calendly <https://calendly.com/laufer>`_ (Tue, Thu, Fri afternoons)
  - TA office hours TBD

- *Texts:*

  | **Java Program Design: Principles, Polymorphism, and Patterns** (required)
  | *By Edward Sciore*
  | Published by: Apress
  | Publication date: December 2018
  | ISBN: 9781484241431
  | `access free on Safari <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/java-program-design/9781484241431/>`_

  | **Managing Concurrency in Mobile User Interfaces with Examples in Android (required)**
  | *by Konstantin Läufer, George K Thiruvathukal*
  | Publisher: Springer
  | Release Date: 2018
  | ISBN: 978-3-319-93109-8
  | `access free preprint on arXiv <https://arxiv.org/abs/1705.02899>`_

  | **Effective Java, 3rd Edition (recommended)**
  | *by Joshua Bloch*
  | Publisher: Addison-Wesley Professional
  | Release Date: December 2017
  | `access free on Safari <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/effective-java-3rd/9780134686097>`_

  | **Head First Design Patterns (required)**
  | *by Kathy Sierra, Bert Bates, Elisabeth Robson, Eric Freeman*
  | Publisher: O'Reilly Media, Inc.
  | Release Date: October 2004
  | ISBN: 9780596007126
  | `access free on Safari <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/head-first-design/9781492077992>`_

- *Additional materials:*

  - :ref:`appendix-software`
  - `These lecture notes <https://lucoodevcourse.github.io>`_
  - `Prerecorded lecture videos in Panopto <https://luc.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Sessions/List.aspx?embedded=1#folderID=%22e5f49a11-43d5-4fe7-9ae2-ad9701598d17%22>`_

- *Additional resources:* :ref:`appendix-resources`

- *Grading:*

  Additive point system:

  - 15 points: three *quizzes* 0 3,  1-2 6 each
  - 36 points: three *tests*, 12 each
  - 38 points ug / 44 grad: *projects* 0a 2, 0b 3, 1a 5, 1b 8, 2 and 3 10 each, 4 6 (optional for undergrads) *(Percentage effort on each group project will be measured by an end-of-term questionnaire. Group project grades and/or final course grades may be adjusted to account for significant discrepancies in effort among group members.)*
  - 15 points: three *group activities*, 5 each
  - 5 points: *participation* (in-class and online, including announcements of and reports from relevant professional events, GitHub issues and PRs for course examples, etc.)
  - various extra credit opportunities

  **Max total: 109 undergraduate / 115 graduate**

  *Undergraduate grading schema:*

  - A 93
  - A- 90
  - B+ 87
  - B 83
  - B- 80
  - C+ 75
  - C 70
  - C- 65
  - D+ 60
  - D 50
  - F < 50

  *Graduate grading schema:*

  - A 98
  - A- 95
  - B+ 92
  - B 88
  - B- 85
  - C+ 80
  - C 75
  - C- 70
  - D+ 65
  - D 55
  - F < 55

- *Academic integrity:* `LUC <https://www.luc.edu/academics/catalog/undergrad/reg_academicintegrity.shtml>`_ | `CAS <https://www.luc.edu/cas/advising/academicintegritystatement/>`_ | `Grad <https://www.luc.edu/gradschool/academics_policies.shtml>`_
- `Sakai site for this section (gradebook) <https://sakai.luc.edu/portal/site/COMP_313_002_5329_1216>`_
- `MS Team <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/team/19%3ad7448a13bdb140679d703a744f49da90%40thread.tacv2/conversations?groupId=fa4f7862-db3c-4e7e-b063-90522d6d2261&tenantId=021f4fe3-2b9c-4824-8378-bbcf9ec5accb>`_ *(mandatory subscription and participation)*

- Important dates (tentative) for quizzes and tests:

  - Week 2 - Thu 9 September: quiz 0
  - Week 4 - Thu 23 September: quiz 1
  - Week 6 - Thu 5 October: test 1
  - Week 9 - Tue 28 October: quiz 2
  - Week 12 - Thu 18 November: test 2
  - Week 16 (finals week) - Tue 14 December: quiz 3

- *Recording of class meetings:* In this class, software will be used to record live class discussions. As a student in this class, your participation in live class discussions will be recorded. These recordings will be made available only to students enrolled in the class, to assist those who cannot attend the live session or to serve as a resource for those who would like to review content that was presented. All recordings will become unavailable to students in the class when the course has concluded. The use of all video recordings will be in keeping with the University Privacy Statement shown below.

- *Privacy Statement:* Assuring privacy among faculty and students engaged in online and face-to-face instructional activities helps promote open and robust conversations and mitigates concerns that comments made within the context of the class will be shared beyond the classroom. As such, recordings of instructional activities occurring in online or face-to-face classes may be used solely for internal class purposes by the faculty member and students registered for the course, and only during the period in which the course is offered. Students will be informed of such recordings by a statement in the syllabus for the course in which they will be recorded. Instructors who wish to make subsequent use of recordings that include student activity may do so only with informed written consent of the students involved or if all student activity is removed from the recording. Recordings including student activity that have been initiated by the instructor may be retained by the instructor only for individual use.
